---
layout: post
title: "Winter Term, 2016"
excerpt: ""
tags: []
date: 2016-01-11
ogimage: ""
---

Here it is, the final term. I expect to receive an AS in Photographic Technology, after not really planning on doing more than taking a couple of classes. This doesn't mean I won't take more (photo) classes at WCC, in fact I'd like to take Alternative Processes again if it's offered, but there's no *end* goal. When I started in 2012, I wanted merely to update my skills, and thought I'd take a class or two and that would be it. But then I started working in the Photo Lab, and was reintroduced to film, and began to really explore what it's like to be an artist-photographer.

The more you do something you enjoy, the more you look to expanding your capability to do it. For me, that involves looking at MFA programs. I want to know what photography *is*, I want to figure out how it is both a commodity and a scarce resource, and I want to know how I can present photographs in ways other than mounted and framed. I think the right program with the right faculty could help me learn this.

That last paragraph sounds like it could be part of the paperwork I have to produce for my [Portfolio Seminar](http://www.wccnet.edu/academics/classes/information/view/class/PHO%20231/) class. As a "capstone" course, it's intended to get students thinking about "what's next" for their photography career. Some students go on to a 4-year college and finish with an art or some other degree; some start their own businesses; some go to grad school. Some just are finished and then they go back to making pictures they like to make, but with some incredible skills. For all of the jokes about community colleges, the WCC Photo program is really good.[^nothanks]

[^nothanks]: I found a MFA program that offers full tuition plus a stipend for its (10 or so) students. Sounds great, and it might be good for painting or sculpture, but their photography program is not nearly as comprehensive as WCCs.
