---
layout: post
title: "Big"
date: "2016-04-16 21:14:52 -0400"
excerpt: "_Big_ is text. _Big_ is process. _Big_ is chaos. _Big_ is big."
tags: [photograph, chaos, glitch, installation,big]
ogimage: "20160411-btozier-big-detail.jpg"
---

{% include _figures.html
  base_image_filename="20160411-btozier-big.jpg"
  title="Big"
  alt="3 wide by 4 high grid of separate multicolored and noisy images that combine to make one image of a toothbrush. Overlay text reads 'This is BIG to draw your attention to my work'"
  caption="Did it get your attention?"
%}

{% include _figures.html
  base_image_filename="20160411-btozier-big-detail.jpg"
  title="Big (detail)"
  alt="Close on the upper right panel 'BIG' which shows the lettering has some sort of texture"
  caption="Closeup on the glitching and the textured lettering"
%}

_Big_ is text. _Big_ is process. _Big_ is chaos. _Big_ is big.

As a photographer, I feel that there is a "right" size for every image, and it's not always "as big as possible". I started thinking about why artists would make large pieces. How could I make a piece that would be as big as I could possibly make it and still have it be "right" size?

Starting from a single medium format film negative, I scanned it at high resolution and brought it into Photoshop to color it. Then I loaded the resulting file into the open-source digital audio editor _Audacity_, and used its controls to "glitch" the image --- adding intentional but not entirely controllable noise and other effects.

After adding the text (and enhancing it with a scanned texture), I then used another open-source program (_ImageMagick_) to chop the file into twelve segments for printing (on metallic paper) and display.

_Big_ is the largest piece I've ever made. _Big_ is also not quite ready for its own gallery on this site, because it really needs to be photographed _in situ_. I could put the digital files in, but I'm not sure that they represent the piece well. I'm hanging the piece soon, we'll see how it goes!

{% include _figures.html
  base_image_filename="20160411-btozier-big-scale.jpg"
  title="Big (scale)"
  alt="The piece hanging from 2 light stands. With the support it is about 7 feet wide by about 10 feet high. I'm standing in front of it for scale. I'm 5 foot 6."
  caption="The piece by itself is about 6 feet by 8 feet."
%}
