---
layout: post
title: "In progress: Glitch"
date: "2017-05-12 20:00"
excerpt: ""
tags: [digital,glitch]
use_gallery_img: false
ogimage: "20170512-btozier-wire-glitch-combo.jpg"
---

I have three projects in progress right now, all in relatively early and unformed stages.

I've found that I need several projects going, *especially* if they're early-stage. I think changing focus helps me give my brain a chance to catch up thinking about whatever problem I'm dealing with at the time. I also seem to cycle through them, each one ratcheting of the next, until one of them reaches the point where I *must finish* it.

I'm not there yet, but I thought I'd share one of them anyway.

This one is a glitch project, similar in technology to [_Big_](/big/), though this is starting with a digital image (_Big_ started with frame of film).

{% include _figures.html
  gallery=false
  base_image_filename="20170428-btozier-wire-original.jpg"
  title="Wire (original image)"
  alt="Silvery loops of wire float across an orange and greenish blurred out background"
  caption="I've learned tell people what the picture is “of”."
%}

The method I'm using to glitch is pretty simple, and requires two programs: first is Photoshop (or equivalent method of generating a `tif` file) and second is [Audacity](http://www.audacityteam.org) (or equivalent method of treating `tif` data as sound data)

<div markdown="1">
1. create a `tif` file from your image
  - Photoshop will save as `TIFF`. Make sure it is uncompressed
  - they can be `interlaced` (RGBRGB) or `per channel` (RRGGBB). Interlaced will let you work with the image as a "whole"; with per channel you work with each color channel independently.
2. Open the file in Audacity (work with a copy if it makes you feel better)
    * `Import > Raw Data...`
    * Choose an uncompressed `tif`
    * select either `U-Law` or `A-Law` (Leave Endian value alone)
    * select 1-channel
    * Manipulate the image after first 1 minute of the timeline (or so, it depends on the image you'll have to experiment). If you're using an `interlaced` file, you can work with the whole timeline (save the beginning). If you're using a `per channel` file you will see 3 distinct sections (red, green, blue) that you can play with, but you need to be careful about the beginnings and ends of the sections.
    * When you're ready to see your work, choose `Export Audio...`
        * Name your file `filename.tif`
            * be sure to add the `.tif` otherwise it will auto-add `.aiff`
            * say "yes" to the `Are you sure?` prompt
        * Filetype: `Other Uncompressed File`
        * Header: `RAW (headerless)`
        * Encoding: `U-Law` if you chose `U-Law`; `A-Law` if you opened it as `A-Law`
3. Try to open the file in Photoshop
    * Did it open? YAY! You can keep working with it.
    * Did it open and complain it doesn't have a valid ICC profile? Yay! You can assign it a profile (`Edit>Assign Profile`). Be sure to save it.
    * Did it tell you that it doesn't recognize the file? OOOPS. Start again with your `tif` in Audacity. I recommend trying very simple edits to begin with to learn where you **can't** change the data.

</div>
{: .aside title='Basic instructions for doing an Audacity glitch'}


Here are some samples from the image above:

{% include _figures.html
  gallery=false
  base_image_filename="20170512-btozier-wire-glitch-3.jpg"
  title="Wire Glitch 3"
  alt="Dark gray blobs, with magenta, red, yellow, blue, green, cyan bands going horizontally across the whole image"
  caption="It's kind of a blob, isn't it?"
%}

{% include _figures.html
  gallery=false
  base_image_filename="20170511-btozier-wire-glitch-6.jpg"
  title="Wire Glitch 6"
  alt="Aqua and blue overall color, with three copies of the wire structure in vertical bands. The wire has turned into elongated segmented blobs."
  caption="This one used echo and perhaps invert"
%}

I'm not going to detail the settings I used to make these, because I don't remember them. In general, you're pretty safe with `echo` and `invert`, and sometimes `phaser` works pretty well. It doesn't take long to try, and it's kind of fun to be surprised!

One last picture I have here is a combination of two glitch pictures, but after they were edited in Audacity, I combined them in Photoshop and did some more edits.

{% include _figures.html
  gallery=false
  base_image_filename="20170512-btozier-wire-glitch-combo.jpg"
  title="Wire Glitch Combo"
  alt="Overall gray picture, flipped horizontally from the original orientation. Has elongated wire blobs, thin color stripes going horizontally, and sharp detail along the in-focus parts of the original image"
  caption="I'm not sure this would print well at all"
%}

I don't have a specific plan for this project yet. I'm still trying to figure out the actual subject and the final form, but I think it might be digital in the end, maybe a video? That decision is later, though, after I've given my brain a chance to think without me watching it.
